---
layout: post
title: dash!
---

Wow, dash/plotly is pretty cool. Managed to pull together a whole interactive visualization from a dataframe after a few hours of tinkering. The dataframe to table thing that they rolled out recently is nice but is definitely pretty limited in scope, though. I relied fairly heavily on Dash's tutorials/walkthroughs to get started, but they're very lightweight on specifics so you'll have to go plunging through their forums to get more detail out of things. 

The nice thing about dash/plotly is being able to avoid Javascript - it's one language I know virtually nothing and pretty much all visualizations seem to rely on one way or another. The downside is that dash makes you very, very aware of how important indenting is in python and how easy it is to mess up when it's ~~turtles~~ parentheses all the way down... 

Guess I'll spend tomorrow figuring out how to deploy to Heroku.

<hr>

(4/22/19 Update: a week later, I find out that there's an Udemy course that covers some of plotly/dash's more confusing basics and deploying to heroku and probably would recommend you try that out first or something, because it's pretty hard going on the lightweight tutorials that dash/plotly provides. I have no experience of this course but it can't hurt to have someone holding your hand on your first walkthrough. Especially when you want to deploy to heroku afterwards.)

4/22/19 Note to Self for Deploying to Heroku:

<ol>
	<li>Write your dash app, make sure it works.</li>
	<li>Keep all your css in the /assets folder, as dash/plotly will automatically pull from those if you do not use an external css file.</li>
	<li>Include a requirements.txt file for heroku. Unless you're using geopandas, get rid of *everything* related to it because it's a pain to deploy correctly on heroku.</li>
	<li>If you haven't done it yet and want to deploy to heroku, install gunicorn.</li>
	<li>Include a procfile for gunicorn.</li>
	<li>IMPORTANT: include a server line in your app, server = app.server</li>>
</ol>

Optional: use serve_layout() instead of fixing the layout in app.layout = {BLAH BLAH BLAH} if you need to have the entire layout update, because certain parts are executed at initialization and never changed otherwise.