---
layout: post
title: Does this work?
categories: [python, ruby, coursera]
---

It has been a long week. I am very bad at a great many things. 
<ul>
	<li>I registered a domain name yesterday. I probably should've used the free domain name that I have from a Wordpress subscription but completely forgot about it.</li>
	<li>I installed geopandas yesterday! Note to self, <a href="https://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/">this</a> is your friend when pip installs seem to fail.</li>
	<li>Then I decided I really needed a lightweight blog to cover programming related stuff - wanted to keep it separate from language-related and personal stuff - and while we're at it, maybe learn to use Markdown. Github, handily enough, worked really well.</li>
	<li>...except for the part where I didn't really want to install ruby again for Jekyll but did it anyway.</li>
	<li>And then I realized that outside of Wordpress I don't actually have a lightweight text editor anymore for html and thought, oh, this might be a good time to try out Sublime Text. And then wasted 30 minutes of my life navigating around Sublime and installing random packages. And then gave in, six hours later, and purchased a license.</li>
	<li>Then I wrestled for about an hour today on trying to figure out themes for Github pages and finally got one going. Short and slightly overdone answer for self: fork, rename to github page, edit config files.</li>
	<li>On the bright side, I finished Coursera's Python Basics today. Well, I got a certificate today. I technically finished two weeks ago.</li>
</ul>