---
layout: post
title: work, python pypi
---

Getting used to writing dax queries. PowerBI's pretty flexible and writing dax queries is pretty cool. I just wish there was a better, er, 'window' I guess to write them in. It's nothing more than a glorified excel line item, and there's no auto indenting or code highlighting so it's really hard to tell if you're getting the syntax right. I usually paste dax queries into something that does indenting and code coloring and then pop it back in. 

Made an attempt to build a package in pypi yesterday and I finally got it to work but man is it a pain in the butt to get working if you're in Windows. 

### Getting Pypi to work without knowing anything better (and doing it in Windows no less)

* Go to the link that [pypi helpfully points you out to](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/)
* Realize that this works right up to the point until you're actually testing the upload to pypi (or test pypi), in which case everything goes wrong in Windows
* Spend a half an hour aimlessly searching the internet for blog posts from 2017 and finding out it's related to not having a ~/.pypirc file
* Think that this can't possibly be it because you don't have a bash to restart in the first place
* Find out that pip settings in windows are done in some .ini file buried somewhere and investigate that
* Find out that the .ini is completely irrelevant and you still need a .pypirc file in your users/ folder. How you installed python/anaconda is irrelevant in this case, it needs to be in your users folder.
* Find the relevant information for your .pypirc file from [Jetbrains](https://blog.jetbrains.com/pycharm/2017/05/how-to-publish-your-package-on-pypi/), copy that only to find out that pypi throws an error on that because it's not 2017 anymore and pypi changed their repository location.

As of 2019, it's the below code in the .pypirc file. Then you can twine upload away


	[distutils]
	index-servers=
	    testpypi
	    pypi
	 
	[testpypi]
	repository = https://test.pypi.org/legacy/
	username = user_name
	password = password
	 
	[pypi]
	repository = https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/
	username = user_name
	password = password