---
layout: post
title: advent of code
---

Someone in slack turned me on advent of code, and I decided to do it because it seemed like fun. Got busy with work this year, and got back to it this weekend (I was hanging on day 5). Went through days 6-11 this weekend, both problems on each day, and am stopping to take a break because that's kind of a lot of problems in a short period of time. Because it's my first year, I decided to just do it all in Python for now, although I do see people experimenting by solving it in different languages every day.

Having only made it up to day 11 so far, my initial thoughts are that it's fun in the sense that nothing so far has been too terribly difficult to do, just terribly finicky and depending on how poorly you coded certain problems (intcode) this came back to haunt you in the following days. Some problems definitely easier than others if you had some idea of how to approach it - e.g., day 10 is probably immensely easier if you use vector math, so, thanks, linear algebra review! Definitely some days where I read the problem and was like, uh, I can do it but I really dun wanna code that, so I'm just... gonna watch Youtube videos instead (all the intcode opcode coding). So far I think the problems have been quite clear in what they're asking for, although I had to look up clarification for 2 out of the 22 problems so far (I had no idea what that thruster engine problem was asking for in part 2 when you had it run on infinite loop until I read some reddit clarification comments). Nothing so far that I've gotten mentally stuck over beyond the hurdle of you know, sitting down and coding out the boring bits.

My school comes with datacamp access but that's been not all that different from dataquest. It's been kind of boring, been mostly trying to get to the top rank within the school year for lack of anything better to do. I don't really do very well with extremely small bitesize coding unless I'm very new to a language. 